1) What is an API
    Application programming interface (API) is code that enables two 
    software programs to communicate with each other.



2) One of the most critical steps is identifying an universal API management solution. 
    Ամենակարևոր քայլերից մեկը API-ի կառավարման ունիվերսալ լուծում գտնելն է:

3) Companies must choose an API management solution that enables 
    developers to consume all of an organization's APIs through a single catalog.


4) How do APIs work?
    API architecture is usually explained in terms of client and server. The application
    sending the request is called the client, and the application sending the response is 
    called the server. So in the weather example, the bureau’s weather database is the server, 
    and the mobile app is the client.

5) SOAP "Simple Object Access Protocol"
    These APIs use Simple Object Access Protocol. Client and server exchange messages using XML.
    This is a less flexible API that was more popular in the past.
    It used in the banking industry

6) RPC "Remote Procedure Calls"
    a)  These APIs are called "Remote Procedure Calls".
        The client completes a function (or procedure) on the server, and the server sends the output back to the client.

    b)  (RPC) APIs enable communication between different processes or systems by allowing 
        a client to invoke procedures or functions on a remote server as if they were local function calls. This abstraction 
        simplifies the process of building distributed systems, as developers can interact with remote services in a manner 
        similar to calling functions within the same application.

    c)  RPC APIs are commonly used in various distributed systems, including microservices architectures, client-server applications,
        and inter-process communication between different components within an application.

7) Websocket APIs
    Websocket API is another modern web API development that uses JSON objects to pass data. A WebSocket API supports two-way communication
    between client apps and the server. The server can send callback messages to connected clients, making it more efficient than REST API.


8) XML-RPC: A simple protocol that uses XML to encode the remote procedure calls and HTTP as the transport mechanism.

10) JSON-RPC: Similar to XML-RPC but uses JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) for data serialization.

11) gRPC (Google Remote Procedure Call): A high-performance RPC framework developed by Google, which uses Protocol Buffers 
    (protobuf) for data serialization and HTTP/2 for transport, with support for multiple programming languages.


12) "Web API" or "Web Service API" is an "Application Processing Interface" between a web server and web browser.
     All web services are APIs but not all APIs are web services. 
     REST API is a special type of Web API that uses the standard architectural style.

13) What are "API integrations"?
    API integrations are software components that automatically update data between clients and servers.
    Some examples of API integrations are when automatic data sync to the cloud from your phone image gallery,
    or the time and date automatically sync on your laptop when you travel to another time zone.
    Enterprises can also use them to efficiently automate many system functions.

15)benefits of REST APIs : 
    1)Integration:              APIs are used to integrate new applications with existing software systems(integrate with the server)
    2)Innovation:               making changes at the API level without having to re-write the whole code.
    3)Expansion:                APIs present a unique opportunity for businesses to meet their clients’ needs across different platforms
        //Ընդլայնումը.
    4)Ease of maintenance:      Each system is obliged(պարտավոր) to make internal changes so that the API is not impacted (ազդեցություն չունենա)
        //Տեխնիկական սպասարկման հեշտություն

16)What are the different types of APIs?

